README.md, before:

WDIO Cucumber Framework Adapter
===============================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework) [![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/coverage) [![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework)

***

> A WebdriverIO plugin. Adapter for CucumberJS v2 testing framework. To use v1 install this package with latest version v0.3.1.

## Installation

The easiest way is to keep `wdio-cucumber-framework` as a devDependency in your `package.json`.

```json
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "wdio-cucumber-framework": "~1.0.0"
  }
}
```

You can simple do it by:

```bash
npm install wdio-cucumber-framework --save-dev
```

Instructions on how to install `WebdriverIO` can be found [here.](http://webdriver.io/guide/getstarted/install.html)


## Configuration

Following code shows the default wdio test runner configuration...

```js
// wdio.conf.js
module.exports = {
  // ...
  framework: 'cucumber'
  cucumberOpts: {
    timeout: 10000
  }
  // ...
};
```

## `cucumberOpts` Options
    
### backtrace
Show full backtrace for errors.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### compiler
Require files with the given EXTENSION after requiring MODULE.

Type: `String[]`<br>
Default: `*[]*`<br>
Example: `['js:babel-core/register']`

### failAmbiguousDefinitions
**Please note that this is a wdio-cucumber-framework specifc option and not recognized by cucumber-js itself**
Treat ambiguous definitions as errors.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### failFast
Abort the run on first failure.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### ignoreUndefinedDefinitions
**Please note that this is a wdio-cucumber-framework specifc option and not recognized by cucumber-js itself**
Treat undefined definitions as warnings.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### name
Only execute the scenarios with name matching the expression (repeatable).

Type: `REGEXP[]`<br>
Default: `[]`

### profile
Specify the profile to use.

Type: `String[]`<br>
Default: `[]`

### require
Require files containing your step definitions before executing features. If you apply a path don't use globbing as it is not supported. Instead just reference the step definition files directly.

Type: `String[]`<br>
Default: `[]`<br>
Example: `[path.join(__dirname, 'step-definitions', 'my-steps.js')]`

### snippetSyntax
Specify a custom snippet syntax.

Type: `String`<br>
Default: `undefined`

### snippets
Hide step definition snippets for pending steps.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `true`

### source
Hide source uris.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `true`

### strict
Fail if there are any undefined or pending steps

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### tagExpression
Only execute the features or scenarios with tags matching the expression. Note that untagged
features will still spawn a Selenium session (see issue [webdriverio/webdriverio#1247](https://github.com/webdriverio/webdriverio/issues/1247)).
Please see the [Cucumber documentation](https://docs.cucumber.io/tag-expressions/) for more details.

Type: `String`<br>
Default: ``

### tagsInTitle 
Add cucumber tags to feature or scenario name

Type: `Boolean[]`<br>
Default: `false`

### timeout
Timeout in milliseconds for step definitions.

Type: `Number`<br>
Default: `30000`


## Development

All commands can be found in the package.json. The most important are:

Watch changes:

```sh
$ npm run watch
```

Run tests:

```sh
$ npm test

# run test with coverage report:
$ npm run test:cover
```

Build package:

```sh
$ npm build
```

----

For more information on WebdriverIO see the [homepage](http://webdriver.io).

Commit message:

bugfix - using tags in template scenarios

README.md, after:

WDIO Cucumber Framework Adapter
===============================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework) [![Test Coverage](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/badges/coverage.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/coverage) [![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/webdriverio/wdio-cucumber-framework)

***

> A WebdriverIO plugin. Adapter for CucumberJS v2 testing framework. To use v1 install this package with latest version v0.3.1.

## Installation

The easiest way is to keep `wdio-cucumber-framework` as a devDependency in your `package.json`.

```json
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "wdio-cucumber-framework": "~1.0.0"
  }
}
```

You can simple do it by:

```bash
npm install wdio-cucumber-framework --save-dev
```

Instructions on how to install `WebdriverIO` can be found [here.](http://webdriver.io/guide/getstarted/install.html)


## Configuration

Following code shows the default wdio test runner configuration...

```js
// wdio.conf.js
module.exports = {
  // ...
  framework: 'cucumber'
  cucumberOpts: {
    timeout: 10000
  }
  // ...
};
```

## `cucumberOpts` Options
    
### backtrace
Show full backtrace for errors.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### compiler
Require files with the given EXTENSION after requiring MODULE.

Type: `String[]`<br>
Default: `*[]*`<br>
Example: `['js:babel-core/register']`

### failAmbiguousDefinitions
**Please note that this is a wdio-cucumber-framework specifc option and not recognized by cucumber-js itself**
Treat ambiguous definitions as errors.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### failFast
Abort the run on first failure.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### ignoreUndefinedDefinitions
**Please note that this is a wdio-cucumber-framework specifc option and not recognized by cucumber-js itself**
Treat undefined definitions as warnings.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### name
Only execute the scenarios with name matching the expression (repeatable).

Type: `REGEXP[]`<br>
Default: `[]`

### profile
Specify the profile to use.

Type: `String[]`<br>
Default: `[]`

### require
Require files containing your step definitions before executing features. If you apply a path don't use globbing as it is not supported. Instead just reference the step definition files directly.

Type: `String[]`<br>
Default: `[]`<br>
Example: `[path.join(__dirname, 'step-definitions', 'my-steps.js')]`

### snippetSyntax
Specify a custom snippet syntax.

Type: `String`<br>
Default: `undefined`

### snippets
Hide step definition snippets for pending steps.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `true`

### source
Hide source uris.

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `true`

### strict
Fail if there are any undefined or pending steps

Type: `Boolean`<br>
Default: `false`

### tagExpression
Only execute the features or scenarios with tags matching the expression. Note that untagged
features will still spawn a Selenium session (see issue [webdriverio/webdriverio#1247](https://github.com/webdriverio/webdriverio/issues/1247)).
Please see the [Cucumber documentation](https://docs.cucumber.io/tag-expressions/) for more details.

Type: `String`<br>
Default: ``

### tagsInTitle 
Add cucumber tags to feature or scenario name

Type: `Boolean[]`<br>
Default: `false`

### timeout
Timeout in milliseconds for step definitions.

Type: `Number`<br>
Default: `30000`


## Development

All commands can be found in the package.json. The most important are:

Watch changes:

```sh
$ npm run watch
```

Run tests:

```sh
$ npm test

# run test with coverage report:
$ npm run test:cover
```

Build package:

```sh
$ npm build
```

----

## New Feature

Using templates in .feature files. Special step: 
```
    When(/^Using template "([^"]*)"$/, (path) => {
    });
```

It will add template scenarious in current feature file from feature with a specified path. 

Example: 

```
Feature: Verification example
   
   @login
   Scenario: Download report from page
    Given I should be on "Home" page
        And I download file by clicking on "Download"
        And Export of XLSX for company should be complete
    
    When Using template "./tests/features/templateExcelVerification.feature"

```

For more information on WebdriverIO see the [homepage](http://webdriver.io).
